---
title: Bloom
---

[Bloom][bloom] is [Wil McCarthy][mccarthy]'s fifth book. It was published in
1998, but I have just read it recently to lazily fill the week-end.

![Bloom cover](http://static.cyprio.net/wtf/Bloomcover.jpg)

# Plot

Here's the plot in a few words (and without spoilers).

In the future, Earth has been taken over by nano-machines that consume every
thing they can get their nano-teeth on. Actually, those bots have conquered
(devoured?) most of the solar system, exiling mankind to the colder planets of
the Solar system.

The story is told by Strasheim, a blogger/worker in a shoe factory, as he takes
part in an exploration mission back to Earth.  A crew of scientists is sent back
home to drop monitoring beacons from space, in order to better assess the threat
posed by the plague.

# A short review

This is the first book from Wil McCarthy I ever read, and I loved it.  The
universe is great, the science fiction (duh), and the whole story makes sense.
But in the end, I was still hungry for more information.

It's interesting to note how much details are put on the daily gadgets of the
starship's crew.  For instance the "future Google Glass", known as the Zee-Spec,
is always present on every character's face, mind, and at every page.  They're
described as a rough counterpart to today's smart-phones...  But do we *think*
about them all the time? You could argue that it is an SF book, so tech lust has
to be here, but I'm not so sure.

Then again, the author left many things out that I wish had been explored: comes
to mind the relation between the two distant human colonies.  How each world
sees one another and why did the develop so differently? There is no real
description of the social structures and cultural forces that drove the humanity
to two very distinct worlds other than allusions to tech.

Maybe reading Ursula K. Le Guin influenced me, but I don't believe every SF
novel must be focused purely on tech.  In McCarthy's Bloom, everything *is*.
But there is definitely more food for thought than we're led to believe.

A consequence of that is that many characters are under-developed, some aren't
credible at all, which does not serve the story.  Not to mention the MicoSystem
"character", always present and only used as a scarecrow.

# Conclusion

In the end, as I wrote earlier, I enjoyed the book ; yet I wish it had more into
it.

[bloom]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bloom_%28novel%29
[mccarthy]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wil_McCarthy
