---
title: Reviews
---

Mistborn, or the Mistborn series, is a fantasy novel from [Brandon Sanderson].
As I finally found some time to read the third book of the series, I feel I
have reached the point at which I can write a little about those three books.

It is annoyingly hard to talk about a complete story arc without spoilers, but I
promise to try, and not reveal stuff you'd rather read from the original author
than a random website.  For instance I am avoiding reviews the fourth book.
Although its story is set 300 years after the first three tomes, I guess I just
want to enjoy reading it, if or when I get the chance: few fantasy authors care
to evolve their creation this far, which makes me, at the very least, curious.


# A few words about the author

Sanderson is well known by fans of Robert Jordan's The Wheel of Time because he
completed the series when its original author passed. On the other hand, he is
quite prolific himself, if you have a look at its [current bibliography][bibli].

I stopped reading The Wheel of time a *long* time ago, because I lost interest
in the story.  However, I had read a few things about M. Sanderson online, and
randomly grabbed his [Steelheart][steelheart] book. I wish I could recommend it,
but nope I will not.

To be honest, I do not know why I started with the Mistborn series after the
previous fail...  But it was a good idea.


# Why read it?

Now, why would *you* be interested in this?

 - the magic system is good,
 - the dialogues are great,
 - the characters are all quite loveable (except the boring Elend),
 - the world has been ruled for a thousand years by LOTR's Saurons cousin,
 - ash falling from the sky?


# Book 1: The Final Empire

The first book is a quick read, and if you can avoid to devour it in one
sitting, good for you. I think it is the lightest of the three ; although it
features large doses of drama, it is balanced by the characters' apparent
detachment with respect to their goals.

Still, I do not think the characters under-developed...  Well, not *all of them*
anyway (Ham, Clubs, who are those guys?).  Most characters gained a lot more
credibility with the second book.  After flirting with Sanderson's other series,
The Reckoners, I can not tell if it is entirely intentional: here's a first
story, lot of action, a few characters, and we will slow down in the second
book.


# Book 2: The Well of Ascension

The second book is interesting because the world has changed a lot, and the new
balance of powers could have been a good excuse for more political games, but
(sadly?) this is not A Game of Throns. :)

The romantic story is as boring as the poor Elend.


# Book 3: the Hero of Ages


[Brandon Sanderson]: http://www.brandonsanderson.com/
[bibli]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brandon_Sanderson#Bibliography
[steelheart]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reckoners_series#Steelheart
