---
title: technology is a drug
---

_  
We can't get enough of it.

We feed it to our kids and watch them grow on a forced diet of
desensitization.  
Switch on the T.V. and someone will tell you 50 000 died in India.  
Two seconds later you're watching a comedy. Technology can do that. It gives
us  
simulated realities that make us oblivious to the real world. Heroin does the
same  
thing. So do most class A drugs. Basically, we are all addicts - addicted to
the  
comfort and convenience that technology provides - addicted to the notion that  
progress is directly related to the size of your computer screen. Of course it
is.  
We must be right. We come from the developed world. We're already developed.  
Sure. Then again, wealthy kids in America shoot each other. Poor kids in
Soweto  
can't stop smiling.

So who's developed ?

I met an Aborigine in Arnhemland, Australia - his nephews showed me symbols  
where I saw trees and rainbows through smoked glass. They could see fish
through  
clouded water. I couldn't even see my own reflection. I must have forgotten
now.

When I look in front of me, I see two paths - spiritual or material. Two
worlds -  
developed and developing. You decide which is which. We're still in the wake
of  
millennium paranoia - earthquakes, floods, end of world scenarios, cult
suicides, viral  
diseases that eat into our computer realities. This is our developed world.

Then, as Nelson Mandela says 'We are free to be free'.

I guess we make our own prophecies.

Nitin Sawhney - March 2001  
_

Y'a pas à chier, des fois j'aime bien ce qu'il raconte. Sans parler de sa
musique :)  
Par contre, je garde mon 19"

