---
title: via fleur.net
---

2 tests idiots de suite dans la journée... ça commence bien.

**I Am A:** Chaotic Good Elf Mage Bard   
  
  
_Alignment:_  
**Chaotic Good** characters are independent types with a strong belief in the value of goodness. They have little use for governments and other forces of order, and will generally do their own things, without heed to such groups.   
  
  
_Race:_  
**Elves** are the eldest of all races, although they are generally a bit smaller than humans. They are generally well-cultured, artistic, easy-going, and because of their long lives, unconcerned with day-to-day activities that other races frequently concern themselves with. Elves are, effectively, immortal, although they can be killed. After a thousand years or so, they simply pass on to the next plane of existance.   
  
  
_Primary Class:_  
**Mages** harness the magical energies for their own use. Spells, spell books, and long hours in the library are their loves. While often not physically strong, their mental talents can make up for this.   
  
  
_Secondary Class:_  
**Bards** are the entertainers. They sing, dance, and play instruments to make other people happy, and, frequently, make money. They also tend to dabble in magic a bit.   
  
  
Find out [What D&D; Character Are
You?](http://irulethe.net/~neppyman/dndwho/index.html), courtesy of
**[NeppyMan](http://www.livejournal.com/users/neppyman/)**

'tain pkoi y'a barde là ? nan mais franchement mage et puis c'est tout !?  
Pfff barde ...

