---
title: Introverti
---

Not so long ago, I read about introverts on Hacker News, and how for X
Americans, an average of Y would be serious introverts (luckily this doesn't
seem to affect us Europeans). While some of those poor introvees don't know a
thing about their condition, some could be faking it, obviously, shame on you
faketroverts.

The point made was that introverts are cool, have an awesome creative brain,
with hidden powers and extra cheese. But as a drawback, they are kinda awkward
socially: the introvert need some alone-time to recharge h{er,is} batteries,
and then can go back to a normal life of consumerism, tivo-ing, and endless
chats about the latest game, comic book, or whatever.

That's all very fine with me, although it just seem like another word for
geek. Like they stole the damn word from us, and turned it into Peter Parker,
the Bastards. Now we're introverts. Next time we will not hesitate to use
pseudo-latin. Do not fuck with us, we're the Introverti of the Internets.

Let's get back to me. This is my first post in english so, please, can I be
self-centered for a little longer? Although you could stop reading now: the
following is strictly boring.

Last Thursday, I was still convinced it was okay to drive through half the
gracious lands of France with my dad, to end up at a holiday resort. He got an
extra-big discount to stay there a few days in a decent looking.. mobile-home.
I won't count the ways I hate holiday resorts, or mobile-homes. Combine the
two and you've got the king of holidays I won't typically enjoy. Somehow I
tend to be a supportive son, I'll endure it, and try to get the best of the
damn situation. Plus I get to escape work a few days under the sun, which is
motivational enough.

No my dad did not buy the stupid thing in the end, it is of course a scam,
duh.

It was not just the two of us. My sister joined in with her Italian boyfriend,
who can't walk very far because of his broken little toe. Which is quite
amusing since he's a giant pack of meat that used to do weight-lifting. From
Thursday up to Sunday, the schedule was mostly beach and sun-bathing, aka
human bbq, with a lot of bacon. I hate that, I'd rather have real bbqs than
observe sea lions in pink bikinis.

Sadly, my stock of one (1) book died too early and without a decent library
around I was quite frustrated. Imagine a cute puppy all alone and sad in the
sand, that's me with nothing to read.

Then I had to acknowledge soccer trivia while turning my back to the huge LCDs
every restaurant love to put on display during the world cup. I won't recall
our endless chats about how nice this place is, though a little bit crowded
during the full season, and how hot the weather is, and how's your toe dude?

My family is not common ground for introverts. Not at all. It's just that we
manufacture them with carefully crafted holiday sessions. So, please don't
talk to me for a few years. I need to recharge now... Or grab some beers, and
show me clever code, that could help.

Extra thanks to M. Ward, and Herbie Mann, who provided the soundtrack for
this.

