---
title: "Never will I burn?"
---

This reminds me of a rather recent conversation I had with a co-worker at
[af83](http://af83.com).

>  
If you want a happy productive team, I would say at all costs. As with most
things awareness and professionalism is the main key. Listening to individuals
who are working at the coal face and in the fire line of production.

>

> An great example being that when they complain about other employees work
and behaviour, explore it, don't fail over to the easy position of favouritism
and write it off to a "personality clash" as you obviously have one individual
not functioning (the one who is vocalising the issue) and very likely there is
something wrong with the one they are pointing to.

>

> Ignore this at your peril. Unfortunately most do, or allow their reactions
to be directed by personal bias, i.e. attacking the individual who is trying
to explain the issue.

>

> In situations like this there is a Tesa coil of a bolt building up.

>

> Professional and unbiased personnel management is key, though usually absent
unfortunately. Recent surveys have indicated that around 50% of individuals
have let or want to leave their employment due to poor management.

>

> ([complete article at Lifehacker](http://lifehacker.com/5674007/burnout-and-
how-to-deal-with-it))

This reminded of a decision I took a few weeks ago to basically "work less",
and take more time for whatever else (running, reading, naked sky-diving, ball
shaving, you name it). Since it is easy to overwork oneself in a exciting
start-up environment, and quite enjoy it, the solution was not so obvious at
first. Some people are having a rather hard time figuring out that _they're
not their job_.

I came up with a pretty stupid solution, that mostly involves a timer (and
some graphs, 'cause you know I'm collecting data and... that's what you do
with data), and then a "stress margin" to leave some room for exceptions...
Again, as we are often saying : "works for me".

