---
title: loops
---

Yesterday evening I was attending a workshop at [Le loop](http://leloop.org/)
with special guest Benjamin Bayart. The Loop is a moving target, occupying
various places at different times. Its current location is a three story high
office-building in the middle of Paris with network, electricity, water, etc:
quite the perfect spot for a hacker space. Of course (if I understood
correctly) they're currently in court for illegally occupying the place,
nothing surprising if you know a little about french laws and occupying empty
places. However, I'm always surprised at the way theses places gather
brilliant minds, and good will. :)

Thriving on the small buzz around mister Bayart's presence, the place was a
little bit crowded. a journalist from France Inter was here interviewing a few
of the core people of The Loop. I hope we get to hear their voices in Daniel
Mermet's [Là bas si j'y suis](http://www.la-bas.org/) one day or another.

Mister Bayart's was nice enough to talk about typography, privacy, and network
architecture: for those who did not know how BGP work in theory, they now do.
However, as always, I'm more interested in the "state of the Internet" in
France: how ISP are pushing for a more restrictive model that would inevitably
cripple the people (not only geeks mind you), why is that bad for you, etc.
Pushing it would be imagining Internet packages that allows you to access
either Facebook or Google services, a "special premium" access to Youtube,
etc. All things considered, this is just a slide from an "open" connectivity
model to something as bad as the mobile providers: if you thought you were
accessing Internet from your smartphone, think again, you've been trapped in
layers of cache every minute ; of course that does not prevent every operator
from limiting your connection in bandwidth and volume. Greedy bastards. Next
in line: your home connection.

In the end, there are a few things that make me glad I'm leaving for a while
to Mexico. I just hope I won't return to a country with less freedom.

