---
title: "wanna read?"
---

A lot of tools exist to _read news_. From mail readers, RSS readers, various
micro-blogging clients, or IM bots, and what not. However, I noticed that I
consume most of my _news_ through the first two of this list, mainly mail
readers and RSS readers...

I'm quite happy with [mutt](http://mutt.org) as a mail client. Being the one
that "suck less" is probably his main quality, and with a good deal of macros
and vim to write the occasional answer, I'm good. However, there are no "RSS
reader" that would suck less. The most used is probably Google's Reader, which
I've been quite happy to use for some time. However, I don't like my data
stored in Google's _cloud_, for every government to peek at... You can call me
paranoid. Although the truth is I'm also quite annoyed by their ugly interface
(and no, I don't want another custom CSS through a browser extension, thank
you).

I could use [newsbeuter](http://newsbeuter.org/), which is said to be the
"mutt of newsreaders", and furthermore sync it with Google's product. This
would allow me to read the shit out of my news in a terminal or in a browser.
I like the idea... but not so much Google's Reader for the reasons mentioned
earlier. Luckily, newsbeuter is also [able to
sync](http://code.google.com/p/newsbeuter/issues/detail?id=243) with a tool
called [TinyTinyRSS](http://tt-rss.org/).

So my question currently is wether I should install another PHP application
(PHP is the keyword) on an server, or leap from idea to code, and start
writing this modular news aggregator that would directly feed news to a single
store with different consumers: from a web interface to a bunch of IMAP
folders to read news with mutt... Or should I just try to setup
[NewsBlur](http://www.newsblur.com/)?

Damn... so many questions, so little time... and meanwhile hacker-news is
still bubbling with more things to read.

Now I sound like I have AD/HD, but I'm just brainstorming. Thank you for your
brain-time too,

