---
title: "Adventures in importation land"
---

I'm learning the hard way that buying a Leica lens from a foreign country can
trigger some annoying alarms at the customs.

At first, everything is nice and fast, and UPS moves the package from New-York
to Mexico City in less than 24 hours. Then, as things slow down to the Mexican
pace, a few days later UPS-Mexico notifies you through the tracking page that
more documents are needed for clearance. This is where I sigh heavily, and
have some really rude words for the concepts of government, and borders.

The whole mechanism is quite simple. If you're a Mexican citizen (or company,
or resident, ...), the local law requires that you have an _importation
license_ to get _expensive_ stuff from abroad (that's _if_ the package states
the actual value of its contents: you can try to lie through border officials
too). The good thing is, if you are a normal citizen, there is a procedure
that you can complete by filling a few forms to promise the government that
you are _really_ importing stuff for your own personal use.

When designing this <s>greedy</s> government-y importation-taxing process, I
guess no one thought of dummy tourists buying expensive stuff during their
stay on Mexican soil (hello it's me!), since those forms require tax payer
IDs, and other taxation paraphernalia. It reminded me of software design: when
a developer leaves a imprudent comment in code _“you should never get
there”_... Of course someone will, you big dummy programmer. :)

So we'll see how this get through, or if I will have to ask the nice customer
service of [Adorama](http://adorama.com) to send my stuff to... France, and
then wait a month for a friend's visit (working around the bug we just found
here...). That's if the french gods of importation smile at me anyway. I
always expect bad news from governments.

The good thing is that living here, in old Oaxaca, has made me completely
impervious to what I call — hopefully _not_ sounding racist, really — the
Mexican pace: things tend to happen when they're ready to.

