---
title: "Lifting"
---

It's been a while since I updated here. As usual I should say...

I've never liked writing things inside web interfaces. As I use the VIM editor
everyday to write code, e-mails, notes, it seemed inappropriate not keep
writing in it when it came to these short rants. For a while, I would keep
notes on disk, before publishing them. But the truth is I'd never push those
online, bored by the login window, and the lipsticked `textarea`. Time for a
change!

I also decided to drop the "wtf.cyprio.net" sub-domain, to store all the stuff
on the main "cyprio.net" domain. This means I need to care for only one web
site, and I naïvely hope that it'll help me update more.

# Moving the site to Hakyll

I had been wanting to try [hakyll][hakyll] for quite some time, and extracting
my previous posts from [Habari][habari]'s DB to plain [markdown][markdown]
files on disk proved simple enough (with a few lines of [Ruby magic][habari2md]).

Another tool I'm using daily is [Git][git], so *yes* all these files are
obviously pushed to a git repository which I host privately. While this is a
public website, and I'd rather push it to my public [Github][github] account,
I still have a few things to iron out before doing so...

# Psst, that link's broken...

For instance, there are quite a few media files lingering out there. I pushed
none of those to git, and don't intend to: storing binary blobs in git can make
it slowish, but mainly I think it's bad style. As I'd rather release than wait
everything to be perfectly perfect, I'm still pushing this version live today.

It contains some broken pictures, broken links too, but I'm working on fixing
these.

## Just use git-annex

I'd like to use [git-annex][gitannex] to (re-)publish the missing images, and
other static files that are no longer available at the moment. This may
involve little bits of hacking from my part, and some symlinks here and there.

I like that git-annex (*git-annex assistant* actually) allows you to
synchronize folders (much like Dropbox would) transparently. But its strength
is its flexibility when it comes to *what* you want to store, and *where* you
want it saved. Yes, it can encrypt your stuff if you want...

Git-annex allows you to store the metadata of the repository files, while
their content is backup-ed elsewhere. This is great when you want a few files
from your photo or music collection locally, but don't want to download
everything. As this works both ways, it's a nice tool to share files publicly
too.


[hakyll]: http://jaspervdj.be/hakyll/
[habari]: http://habariproject.org/
[markdown]: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
[habari2md]: https://github.com/oz/habari2md
[git]: http://git-scm.org/
[github]: https://github.com/oz
[gitannex]: http://git-annex.branchable.com/
