---
title: "Back to France"
---

A few weeks ago, we packed most of our stuff in Oaxaca, and sold the
rest: back to France for me, and first time living abroad for my wife.

It was a weird time to come back: terrorists had just left seventeen
corpses, and helped spread more hate against innocent Muslims. In spite
of the warm feelings of national union, the weather is still fucking
cold. We are getting used to it, but I will miss wearing T-shirts and
flip-flops year-long. ;)

I am again looking for the best rent in Paris, the shortest commute, the
best bars, and other mundane preoccupations.

The strangest thing of all is going to the same office everyday: quite
useless, unless I am really needed in all those lengthy meetings. Less
things gets done: for instance, I already learned that starting at nine
is pointless, as people tend to arrive *between* nine and ten, and will
cheerfully salute you in the interval: Work 15 minutes, say hi, repeat,
get bored. Then, as French people usually eat between 12PM and 1PM, this
has reduced my mornings to roughly two hours. Plan a meeting in the
afternoon, ruin the whole day. :p

That may be why I can not really mention the hour(s) at which people
leave the damn office. In my opinion, two days a week in an office is
more than enough to accomplish our sacred meetings duties: talking with
our clients, and making eye contact with the rest of the team, while
enjoying terrible French “organic” coffee.

In the end, I know there is room for debate because I really enjoy being
around people, however we all need to avoid wasting so much time on
bullshit. So far, I feel that being back to work the same job in France
is like being back in time to 2011 (only with more upper-management
types, but that is, maybe, a another story).

Let's cut short this whining about work. I have more interesting things
to do, but putting some of it in words greatly helps my short lived
memory.
