---
title: Unemployed
---

2015 started with a big move from Oaxaca's small village, back to the
big city I had left years ago. We have been quite busy looking for our
new home, reconnecting with friends, family, and navigating the French
administration to get health coverage, visas, etc.

Moving back to Paris also gave me a chance to finally leave a company
where I had no intention to stay anymore. As much as I enjoyed my time
at af83, after a few years I got the impression that I would receive
little from the company no matter my efforts. Maybe this was not the
case, but this is how it felt at the time, and the last time I checked.

And so in 2011 I mostly stopped caring about this job.

After losing interest in the company, I quickly grew bored of my daily
life, and decided to leave for Mexico. After all, Oaxaca is a pretty
awesome place, and I knew I could do my job just as well, away from a
company that did not offer me much in Paris. And I did, working from
home, or sipping delicious Mexican coffee in a caf√©, it worked swell: I
forgot about stress, commutes or metro cards, and focused on getting
things done[^1].

[^1]: I also discovered that Mexico can be a lot more than a cute
tourist spot, but that is another story.

Back to 2015, when we decided to move back to France, it was never with
the intention of slipping back into my old skin. Rather, I planned to
look for what would be next.

## Trying new things

Then, two friends offered me different paths: either take an engineering
job at well-funded startup, or jump down the rabbit hole to start a
business.

As things go, I wanted to try to fit in at a new company. I knew I could
provide *some* value elsewhere. So I quit my old lifeless engineer
position, for a new more exciting engineer position. And all was well,
for a little while.

Daily commutes to the office, daily stand-up meetings, a weekly code
freeze before the push to production: the well oiled mechanics of our
technical jobs were at work again. I felt little to no pressure. Success
was (is?) attainable, it would come after a few months of work: just
make sure that the platform can handle new features, more traffic, and
generate more profits.

I was part of a cool machine, and yet still thought of my own little
project. I kept working on it on my free time, and soon it was clear
that I had made the wrong choice. So I quit, again. This time, I felt
really uncomfortable leaving a great team, but I needed to.

This all leads to this moment where I am *officially* unemployed, but
sweating to create a sustainable business because it is fun, and
different from what I have done so far. I am learning new tricks,
bringing new ideas to life, and ~~getting paid for it~~ I hope I can get
paid for it. In sha'Allah.

Let's see what the rest of the year will bring.
