---
title: Introducing mdstat
---

MailDir Stat (mdstat) is a small program I wrote some time ago to play
with [zig](https://ziglang.org/): it lists MailDirs, and optionally only
those that contain unread emails. Nothing incredibly new, just a small
itch to scratch.

It came from a small frustration with (neo)mutt where I sometimes like
to have a tree of mailboxes in the sidebar ; but I only want to see the
*unread* ones. I synchronize various IMAP accounts locally with
[mbsync](https://isync.sourceforge.io/), so finding maildirs is easily
done with a bit of shell scripting.

For instance, this is how I listed *all* maildirs until recently:

```
fd . /home/oz/mail/cyprio --type d | \
  rg 'cur/$' | \
  sed 's,^/home/oz/mail/cyprio/\(.*\)/cur,=\"\1\",' | \
  tr '\n' ' '
```

This works well enough to tell neomutt to check all the maildirs of my
account, and you can get more creative to ignore some directories, etc.
With mdstat, this is just:

```
mdstat ~/mail/cyprio
```

*Personally*, I find that it's an improvement ; but also maybe, a
senseless micro-optimization, you know [just for
fun](https://justforfunnoreally.dev/).

# Sidebar and unreads

My mail account(s) often have nested folders, and will until the day
I&rsquo;m forced to properly use notmuch or something, and use labels
like the rest of the world. I don't know.

Still. As I use the sidebar plugin, I&rsquo;ve realized that the
&ldquo;sidebar parser&rdquo; isn&rsquo;t (wasn&rsquo;t?)  clever enough
to display a tree unless *explicitly* asked to. Let me try to explain.

Let&rsquo;s say that I have new emails under `="news/progamming"`. To
display a nice 2-levels tree with both the *news*, and *programming*
labels correctly nested, the sidebar config expects to receive both
entries like so: `="news/" ="news/programming"` (order doesn&rsquo;t
actually matter).

If you just list `="news/programming"`, you'll get:

```
  programming/
```

If you list both entries, you get:

```
news/
  programming/
```

No flying folder without context, nicely indented, which makes *my*
brain work better. 😌

It&rsquo;s possible to do that with more shell scripting, but it quickly
gets dirty when you try to deal with deeper trees, avoiding duplicates,
and well it also gets slower because it's a shell script.

This is my excuse for writing a program that builds maildir trees. In
that example, `mdstat ... -u` will list both `news` and
`news/programming` when there&rsquo;s unread mail in the bottom folder ;
even if *news* is not a proper maildir (which *is* a feature).

If you&rsquo;re curious, the code is on
[git.cypr.io](https://git.cypr.io/oz/mdstat) with other more or less
personal projects. Of course it&rsquo;s way faster than forking 4+ shell
commands.

# About zig

I&rsquo;m not sure that I&rsquo;ll write much more zig code in the
future.

It&rsquo;s not that I don&rsquo;t enjoy it, quite the contrary! The
language seems simple, and fairly easy to pick up if you&rsquo;ve ever
dealt with C, Go, or Rust. It firmly sits somewhere between C and Go in
my mind ; which is a space that I don&rsquo;t often need to work
into&#x2026; but who knows?
