---
title: Aguaxaca
---

Hi there! Long time no see. Not that I expect to publish frequently
these days. This is the pitch for a little open-source project that's
kept me busy a few evenings.

Some months ago, we moved back to the city of Oaxaca. We've lived in the
countryside nearby for years, but it was soon very clear that "nearby"
was actually pretty far when thousands of people try to use the same
roads at the same time, to get to work or school, and public transport
is shit.

I can't fix that though, so we found a house 10 minutes from school,
and stay in the city a good chunk of the year now. With that change,
we became again dependent on the city's water distribution network.
Something with a pretty name like *Sistema Operador de los Servicios
de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado* (de Oaxaca). Usually, they're online
[here](http://oaxaca.gob.mx/soapa/), but not all the time. 🥲

This public organization manages the water distribution network of
the whole urban area of Oaxaca. For various socio-ecological reasons,
water doesn't run all the time in the city (or state) of Oaxaca. You're
expected to store whatever amount you receive monthly (-ish). There's
not enough water (or pressure) to distribute to everyone at the same
time, so not all districts receive water on the same day. (You should
*not* drink that water by the way.)

The distribution schedules are only advertised on X/Twitter, and
Facebook. This is annoying, because the information is never really
archived anywhere, and is published as JPEGs images (a workaround for
text lengths limit, I guess). That's not too friendly for visually
impaired folks either. In Oaxaca, you do with what little resources you
have.

I like to know when my home will receive water, and I'd also like to
know when it *did* previously, to better manage my consumption. I don't
want to use Twitter/X, or Facebook though. I use them as little as
possible, with a hazmat suit, and tears in my eyes.

So, that's why I started this thing called
[Aguaxaca](https://agua.cypr.io). It is an [open-source
project](https://git.cypr.io/oz/aguaxaca), that gathers water
distribution schedules through a private Nitter instance. The images are
parsed using ~~a normal OCR~~ an LLM, and the schedules are stored and
published for all to see — in particular *me*, but I consider this a
minor public service, not something that will turn a profit.

The goals are simple:

1. archive this stuff,
2. get notifications when it's my turn (essential),
3. get historical records and plot some stats (would be nice),
4. compute the likely date of next delivery (would be extra nice).

I'm currently in "phase 1", discovering the complete list of
distribution sectors. The public data I scrape isn't exactly great, or
consistent, but with some genAI prompt magic, I should be able to turn
this mess into a proper DB. That's the plan anyway!

Also yes, the name… sucks, but it's easy to remember if you know a few
words of Spanish. If you got this far, thanks for reading.
